# Chapter 2 of DOET
## Reflection
This chapter was pretty interesting, as it focused on the importance of certain objects's limitations and design and how it contributes to the user's capability of using something. The example of the Lego motorcycle was a helpful example, as different parts helped explain the terms in the chapter. Out of the 4 aspects, I thought that physical and cultural constraints were the most interesting and easy to understand.

For physical, I thought it wass interesting that when considering the physical design of an object, we must think about what had been done before or what is the current design of certain objects, as it is considered the standard. The chapter mentions the design of a battery, if we were to change how a battery fits in other products, those products must change to that standard and obviously they wouldn't want to do that. That relationship of "cause-and-effect" when designing a physical object seemed interesting for me.

As for cultural, I thought it was interesting that the design of objects depends on where one lives. The customs and ideals of where one resides is taken into consideration and is made to fit that culture. One example that came to mind was where the steering wheel is placed in different countries. Here in the U.S, the driver sits on the left. However, in the UK, the driver sits on the right, having the steering on the right side of the car to fit these customs.
While those two constraints were interesting to read about, the semantic aspect was a bit interesting, as it considered the meaning of design element. As for logical, it was a simple aspect, where the chapter explains it using natural mapping, wher you think about how "left goes left and right goes right".


## Notes
**Physical Constraint**: Physical appearance/limitations of an object/design element, limiting the possible outcomes of how an object is supposed to work/what it's supposed to do

**Cultural Constraint**: Limitations of an appearance/design element that is integrated in the overall design based on the culture/customs of the local region

**Semantic Constraint**: Limitations of an appearance/design element that is integrated in the overall design based on the meaning/symbolism of said design element

**Logical Constraint**: The remainder/obvious design element that is needed to complete the overall design
