# Chapter 1 of DOET
## Notes
Two of the most important characteristics of good design are **discoverability** and **understanding**. Discoverability focuses on findings out what can be done and how to do it while understanding focuses on how a product is supposed to be used.(p3)

Everything is designed with intent and each can be depicted through three different areas of design, industrial, interaction, and experience. **Industrial** focuses on the professional service of creating and developing concepts and specifications that optimize the function, value, and appearance of products and systems for the mutual benefit of both the user and manufacturer. **Interaction** focuses on how people interact with technology in order to enhance people's understanding of what can be done, what is happening, and what has just occurred, drawing upon principles of psychology, design, art, and emotion to ensure a positive, enjoyable experience. **Experience** focuses on the practice of designing products, processes, services, events, and environments with a focus placed on the quality and enjoyment of the overall experience.(p4)

Design has an interesting interplay between technology and psychology, that designers must understand both.(p6)

**Human-centered design(HCD)** is an approach that puts human needs, capabilities, and behavior first, then designs to accommodate those needs, and ways of behaving.(p6)

There are 6 important fundamental psychological concepts in discoverability: **affordances**, **signifiers**, **constraints**, **mapping**, **feedback**, and **the conceptual model of the system**.(p8)

Affordable refers to the relationship between a physical object and a person, more specifically the properties of an object and the capabilities of the person that determine how an object could be used.(p8-9)

Signifiers help communicate where the action should take place, more specifically letting the person know what should a person do when trying to use the object.(p9)

Mapping refers to the relationship between the element of two sets of things, more specifically how certain elements are placed based on the placement of the object.(p16-17)

Feedback refers to the how an object communicates the results of action to the user. It must be immediate or else the user will lose interest. Poor feedback can be worse than no feedback at all and too much can be even more annoying than too little.(p19-20)

Conceptual models are an overall explanation of how something works.(p21)

**Mental models** are conceptual models in people's minds that represent their understanding of how things work.(p21-22)
## Discussion
Starting from the end of page 6 and continuing on to page 7, I found the topic of designers having to be fluent in technology and psychology pretty interesting. When thinking of a design of something, what comes to mind is the physical appearance and how a thing functions. The author points out that sometimes designers will look at a design through a logical standpoint and focus primarily on why it's a great design and later goes on to state that designers can tend to design something through how they should see fit and not how they are already designed. I do agree with the author that its pretty important to understand how an object already functions and instead of trying to alter the design entirely, we have to remember that people already have an idea of what an object looks like and how it works. This idea that people have an idea of how a certain object already functions is later referred to as the mental model. Instead of trying to innovate a new design for a well-known object and risking the usability of an object, designers can focus on improving a design while maintaining simplicity so the product leaves people satisfied.

Additionally, I found the six fundamental psychological concepts in discovering an object or product was pretty interesting. Reading through each of the concepts, I see that each play an important role in how a person is interacting with an object for the first time. Personally, I think that signifiers are the most important fundamental in the design of an object. I think that some sort of symbol or picture to let people know what an object is pretty helpful, like a push or pull sign on a door. Not having that sort of thing really inconveniences the user. For example, every now and then my family and I go to Reno for a 3-day vacation and when we stay at hotels, each of the hotel room’s bathrooms throws me off. Entering these bathrooms, the light switch is split into three different horizontal buttons, one for the entrance lights, one for the headlights near the mirror, and another for the fan. Each time, I always forget what each button does and there are no symbols to what each button does. It overall is a pain to figure out what each button does when I really need to use the bathroom, and a greater pain each time I come back a year or two later and I forget how to use it.
